README.md, before:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano3-puma.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano3-puma)
# Capistrano::Puma

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'capistrano3-puma', github: "seuros/capistrano-puma"

or:

    gem 'capistrano3-puma' , group: :development

And then execute:

    $ bundle

## Usage
```ruby
    # Capfile

    require 'capistrano/puma'
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma  # Default puma tasks
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma::Systemd
```

To prevent loading the hooks of the plugin, add false to the load_hooks param.
```ruby
    # Capfile

    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma, load_hooks: false  # Default puma tasks without hooks
```

To make it work with rvm, rbenv and chruby, install the plugin after corresponding library inclusion.
```ruby
    # Capfile

    require 'capistrano/rbenv'
    require 'capistrano/puma'
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma
```

### Config

Puma configuration is expected to be in `config/puma.rb` or `config/puma/#{fetch(:puma_env)}.rb` and checked in your repository.
Uploading the configuration via capistrano was removed as it was causing problems with custom configurations.

## Example

A sample application is provided to show how to use this gem at https://github.com/seuros/capistrano-example-app

### Systemd Socket Activation

Systemd socket activation starts your app upon first request if it is not already running

```ruby
    set :puma_enable_socket_service, true
```

For more information on socket activation have a look at the `systemd.socket` [man page](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/systemd.socket.5.html).

To restart the listening socket using Systemd run
```
cap puma:systemd:restart_socket
```
This would also restart the puma instance as the puma service depends on the socket service being active

### Other configs

Configurable options, shown here with defaults: Please note the configuration options below are not required unless you are trying to override a default setting, for instance if you are deploying on a host on which you do not have sudo or root privileges and you need to restrict the path. These settings go in the deploy.rb file.

```ruby
    set :puma_user, fetch(:user)
    set :puma_role, :web
    set :puma_service_unit_env_files, []
    set :puma_service_unit_env_vars, []
```

__Notes:__ If you are setting values for variables that might be used by other plugins, use `append` instead of `set`. For example:
```ruby
append :rbenv_map_bins, 'puma', 'pumactl'
```

# Nginx documentation
Nginx documentation was moved to [nginx.md](docs/nginx.md)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

Add notes about running cap task to update config at the server

README.md, after:

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano3-puma.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/capistrano3-puma)
# Capistrano::Puma

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'capistrano3-puma', github: "seuros/capistrano-puma"

or:

    gem 'capistrano3-puma' , group: :development

And then execute:

    $ bundle

## Usage
```ruby
    # Capfile

    require 'capistrano/puma'
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma  # Default puma tasks
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma::Systemd
```

To prevent loading the hooks of the plugin, add false to the load_hooks param.
```ruby
    # Capfile

    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma, load_hooks: false  # Default puma tasks without hooks
```

To make it work with rvm, rbenv and chruby, install the plugin after corresponding library inclusion.
```ruby
    # Capfile

    require 'capistrano/rbenv'
    require 'capistrano/puma'
    install_plugin Capistrano::Puma
```

### Config

Puma configuration is expected to be in `config/puma.rb` or `config/puma/#{fetch(:puma_env)}.rb` and checked in your repository.
Uploading the configuration via capistrano was removed as it was causing problems with custom configurations.

## Example

A sample application is provided to show how to use this gem at https://github.com/seuros/capistrano-example-app

### Systemd Socket Activation

Systemd socket activation starts your app upon first request if it is not already running

```ruby
    set :puma_enable_socket_service, true
```

For more information on socket activation have a look at the `systemd.socket` [man page](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/systemd.socket.5.html).

To restart the listening socket using Systemd run
```
cap puma:systemd:restart_socket
```
This would also restart the puma instance as the puma service depends on the socket service being active

### Other configs

Configurable options, shown here with defaults: Please note the configuration options below are not required unless you are trying to override a default setting, for instance if you are deploying on a host on which you do not have sudo or root privileges and you need to restrict the path. These settings go in the deploy.rb file.

```ruby
    set :puma_user, fetch(:user)
    set :puma_role, :web
    set :puma_service_unit_env_files, []
    set :puma_service_unit_env_vars, []
```

__Notes:__ If you are setting values for variables that might be used by other plugins, use `append` instead of `set`. For example:
```ruby
append :rbenv_map_bins, 'puma', 'pumactl'
```
__Notes:__ Please run capistrano task that updates the config at the server to reflect the changes made in the deploy.rb (or deploy/production.rb etc.). For example, if you add some environment variables using the above config, the following task will update the SystemD config at the server and those environment variables will be available to the app.
```
cap puma:systemd:config
```

# Nginx documentation
Nginx documentation was moved to [nginx.md](docs/nginx.md)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
